
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 37 (Wednesday, March 5, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




    CELEBRATING THE BICENTENNIAL OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE, ILLINOIS

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. JOHN SHIMKUS

                              of illinois

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the City of 
Greenville, Illinois, on its Bicentennial Celebration. The city will 
celebrate throughout the year with a variety of community events, 
including a Labor Day gala featuring a parade, historic re-enactments 
and musical performances, a July 4th opening of a time capsule buried 
in 1990, and the burial of a new time capsule on New Year's Eve with 
mementos from the year's festivities. The city will also erect a 
permanent monument within city limits to commemorate this historic 
occasion.
   The City of Greenville was founded in 1815 by pioneer George 
Davidson and is one of the oldest communities in the state. Throughout 
its history, Greenville has played host to many important events. 
Notably, the city served as a key stop on the Underground Railroad, 
shepherding slaves to freedom from the slaveholding southern states. 
The city also hosted speeches by Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas 
during their 1858 campaign for the United States Senate.
   Since its founding, the city has grown and now is the home to more 
than 7,000 residents. Over the past 200 years, Greenville has produced 
numerous noteworthy individuals. It was once the home of Colorado 
Governor Job Adams Cooper, Emmy-Winning television producer Robert 
Brinner and Nobel Prize Laureate Edwin G. Krebs, among others.
   I extend my congratulations to the City of Greenville upon this 
special occasion. It is my prayer that the Lord blesses its residents 
with another 200 years of health and prosperity.

                          ____________________



