
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 37 (Wednesday, March 5, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E305]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




       RECOGNIZING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF JAXSON'S ICE CREAM PARLOUR

                                 ______
                                 

                         HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS

                               of florida

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. 
Monroe Udell and Ms. Linda Zakeheim, the owners of Jaxson's Ice Cream 
Parlour located in Dania Beach, Florida.
  Jaxson's has long been a staple in Dania Beach and this cultural 
landmark currently employs more than 70 people. Now, Monroe and Linda 
have taken it upon themselves to improve the standard of living for 
their employees. On February 24, 2014--the day of Monroe's 86th 
birthday--Jaxson's raised their minimum wage from $7.93 to $10.10 an 
hour.
  Monroe and Linda have always appreciated the work their employees do 
to create a top rated restaurant. This higher minimum wage will allow 
their employees to enjoy a better standard of living and improved 
economic security. It will allow them to contribute more to the South 
Florida economy. And, it will show other businesses in the region that 
paying a higher wage is possible, profitable, and the right thing to 
do.
  In 1965, Boisey Waiters, Dania's first African American City 
Commissioner, told me about Jaxson's, and I instantly became a fan. 
Monroe first opened the restaurant in 1953, and even then, it was a 
beacon. At that time, most establishments in Broward County did not 
serve colored people. Yet, from the very beginning Monroe took a stand 
against segregation by hiring and serving all restaurant patrons, 
regardless of race. That is why I was not surprised to hear that Monroe 
and Linda acted on their own conscience to help their employees afford 
a better lifestyle. Sixty-one years later, Jaxson's is still showing 
the way with their actions to better support their employees.
  The employees of Jaxson's have worked tirelessly to develop the 
reputation of a restaurant that provides excellent food, great ice 
cream, and a family friendly atmosphere.
  Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased to acknowledge and thank Monroe Udell, 
Linda Zakeheim, General Manager Jerry Smith, as well as all the 
employees working at Jaxson's. I wish them many more years of success.

                          ____________________



