
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 37 (Wednesday, March 5, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E303-E304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




              JAYSON TERDIMAN, 2014 U.S. OLYMPIC LUGE TEAM

                                 ______
                                 

                           HON. LOU BARLETTA

                            of pennsylvania

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Jayson Terdiman of 
Berwick, Pennsylvania who represented the United States in the men's 
doubles and team relay luge competitions in the 2014 Winter Olympics in 
Sochi, Russia.
   Since the age of five, Jayson has been an active member of Berwick's 
athletic community, playing basketball, hockey, and baseball and 
running cross-country. He continued to pursue many of these activities 
during his time at Berwick High School, eventually graduating in 2007 
with distinguished honors.
   Despite his other athletic commitments, Jayson got his start in luge 
early, becoming a member of the USA Luge Development Team

[[Page E304]]

at age 12. His devotion to the sport helped him make the USA Luge 
Candidate Team and the USA Luge Junior National Team, before earning a 
spot on the 2014 U.S. Olympic Team.
   Jayson has received numerous accolades for his achievements in luge. 
From 2007 to 2008, he won three Junior World Cup Bronze Medals and the 
Junior World Luge Championship Bronze Medal. He is also a two-time U.S. 
Junior National Doubles Champion. In 2008, he was the Norton U.S. 
Nationals Doubles champion, and he and his doubles partner, Chris 
Mazdzer, were named the 2008 Luge Team of the Year. In 2010, he won the 
World Cup Bronze Medal, and he won silver medals in the World Cup Team 
Relay competition in 2011 and 2013. During the 2014 Olympic Winter 
games, he placed eleventh in the men's doubles competition with his 
partner Christian Niccum, and he helped the U.S. place sixth in the 
team relay.
   Mr. Speaker, every four years, our nation sends our very best 
athletes to represent us in the Winter Olympics. Therefore, I commend 
Jayson Terdiman for his hard work and achievements as part of the 
United States luge team, and I wish him the best in his future 
endeavors.

                          ____________________



