
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 37 (Wednesday, March 5, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E306]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




       IN HONOR OF CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER 2 EDWARD ``EDDIE'' BALLI

                                 ______
                                 

                             HON. SAM FARR

                             of california

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. FARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Chief Warrant Officer 2 
Edward ``Eddie'' Balli, an American hero who gave his life in service 
to his country. Eddie loved his job as an Unmanned Aerial System 
Operations Officer Platoon Leader for the 2nd Calvary Regiment. He 
provided the eyes in the sky for the soldiers on the ground.
  On January 20, Eddie's unit was attacked by insurgents in the 
Kandahar province of southern Afghanistan. Believing it was his duty to 
place the safety of his fellow troops before his own; Eddie was killed 
while providing cover to protect the rest of his unit. His sacrifice 
ultimately saved the lives of several civilians and his fellow 
soldiers.
  Eddie was a native of Salinas, California, graduating from North High 
School. Soon after graduation, he felt the call to serve his country. 
Following in the footsteps of others in his family, he joined the Army 
in 1991. During his distinguished career, Eddie received many accolades 
including the Bronze Star Medal and the Purple Heart during his many 
deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. He was an inspiration to all who 
served with him. Eddie made himself available to talk with younger 
soldiers, mentoring them and offering both professional and personal 
advice.
  Eddie was also a devout family man. He often spoke fondly of his 
wife, Kristy Balli, and his three children, Michael, Momilani, and 
Desirae. To his family he was more than just a soldier. He was a kind 
and loving husband, father, brother and son who had an infectious humor 
and quirky personality. His family was proud of his patriotic service 
to his country and the care he demonstrated for his fellow soldiers.
  That caring personality, as both a soldier and a family man, is what 
made Eddie an extraordinary person. He was an exemplary soldier, family 
man, and friend who put the needs of others before his own.
  Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of a true patriot and 
hero, Chief Warrant Officer 2 Edward Balli. Our nation is grateful for 
his service and we promise that his life, legacy, and his sacrifice for 
our country will not be forgotten.

                          ____________________



